Update delta median section (#520)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-nf: templates/qc_report/celltypes_supplemental_report.rmd

knitr::asis_output("
### `SingleR` assessment

Here, we evaluate the quality of `SingleR` cell type annotations by comparing the scores for the assigned cell type to the median score of all other cell type labels.

- This quantity is the _delta median_ statistic. 
- _Delta median_ is calculated for each cell by subtracting the median score of all other cell type labels from the score of the assigned cell type label.
- Higher _delta median_ values indicate more confidence in the cell type annotation.
  - However, there is no universal threshold for calling absolute high vs. low confidence, as described in the [`SingleR` book section on 'Annotation diagnostics'](https://bioconductor.org/books/release/SingleRBook/annotation-diagnostics.html#annotation-diagnostics).

You can interpret this plot as follows:

- Each point represents the _delta median_ statistic of a given cell whose final `SingleR` annotation is shown on the y-axis.

> - Points are colored by `SingleR`'s internal confidence assessment: 

Reviewer: Should we include any information on what the confidence assessment is? Or is that going too much into the weeds?

Author: I think it's probably a bit too much detail? I was thinking maybe we could link to something describing this, but there's not a clear section about it in the SingleR book (it's pretty buried in other text). 

These docs do a decent job of explaining, but seems weird to link to a function that we don't actually see being used! https://rdrr.io/bioc/SingleR/man/pruneScores.html

Reviewer: I think it's the words "internal confidence assessment" that are throwing me off. It makes it sound mysterious and also would make me ask more questions. Looking at the documentation for the link you sent, they describe it as grouping cells by "high-quality" and "low-quality". I'm okay with keeping our phrasing as low/high confidence, but I think I might rephrase this sentence a little bit. I'm not totally sure about the wording but something like: 

```suggestion
- The color of the points indicates how confident `SingleR` is in the cell type assignment: 
```

Author: 🔮

Author: > Looking at the documentation for the link you sent, they describe it as grouping cells by "high-quality" and "low-quality"

This is a good point though - I think we should match their wording (quality, not confidence) since "confidence" can be a loaded term statistically!

  - High-confidence cell annotations are shown as closed points.
  - Low-confidence cell annotations are shown as open points. 
  In other sections of this report, these cells are referred to as `Unknown cell types`.
- Red diamonds represent the median _delta median_ statistic among high-confidence points for the given annotation.
")
```

> ```{r, eval = has_singler, warning=FALSE, message=FALSE, fig.height = 7, fig.width = 6.5}

Reviewer: Should we dynamically set this plot height based on the number of cell types? I assume that not every cell type will be assigned in every sample so the size of this plot may change.

Reviewer: I like the figure width though. But maybe something like `num_celltypes * 0.5`?

knitr::asis_output("
### `SingleR` assessment

> Here, we evaluate the quality of `SingleR` cell type annotations by comparing the scores for the assigned cell type to the median score of all other cell type labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we evaluate the quality of `SingleR` cell type annotations by comparing the scores from `SingleR` for the assigned cell type to the median score of all other cell type labels.
```
Maybe something to indicate where the scores are coming from?

Reviewer: oh no just referring to my suggestion. I just think we should say that they are from SingleR.

> Here, we evaluate the quality of `SingleR` cell type annotations by comparing the scores for the assigned cell type to the median score of all other cell type labels.

Reviewer 2: My thought here is to try to further simplify a bi, as we cover the details of what is being compared in the bullets. if we add the name of the stat in this first sentence, we don't need a separate bullet point. I used "assess" instead of "evaluate", but I would like an even more neutral word if we could... I don't want to imply that we have an answer from this statistic.

I also moved the _why_ first.

```suggestion
To assess the quality of the `SingleR`-assigned cell types, we use the _delta median_ statistic.
```

> - This quantity is the _delta median_ statistic. 

Reviewer 2: If you take my suggestion above or something similar to it, we can remove this sentence.
```suggestion
```

> - _Delta median_ is calculated for each cell by subtracting the median score of all other cell type labels from the score of the assigned cell type label.

Reviewer 2: I feel like the assigned should come first?

I also don't like "all" here, so I made the statement about other labels a bit more specific. (Do we want to say "model" here, or maybe "reference data")

```suggestion
- _Delta median_ is calculated for each cell as the difference between the score of the assigned cell type label and  the median score of the other cell type labels in the model.
```

Author: I like "reference data," I think that has a bit more concrete meaning here

- Higher _delta median_ values indicate higher quality cell type annotations.

>   - However, there is no universal threshold for calling absolute high vs. low quality, as described in the [`SingleR` book section on 'Annotation diagnostics'](https://bioconductor.org/books/release/SingleRBook/annotation-diagnostics.html#annotation-diagnostics).

Reviewer 2: I agree that we should mention this is bounded at at 1.

You can interpret this plot as follows:

> - Each point represents the _delta median_ statistic of a given cell whose final `SingleR` annotation is shown on the y-axis.

Reviewer 2: Keeping the terminology consistent?
```suggestion
- Each point represents the _delta median_ statistic of a given cell whose assigned `SingleR` annotation is shown on the y-axis.
```

> - The point color indicates `SingleR`'s quality assessment of the annotation::

Author: ```suggestion
- The point color indicates `SingleR`'s quality assessment of the annotation:
```

> - The color of the points indicates how confident `SingleR` is in the cell type annotation: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The color of the points indicates the quality of the `SingleR` annotation: 
```
Since we aren't using confidence anywhere else, we probably don't want it here.

Reviewer 2: I don't think "assigned" is the right word here, but we might want to make sure it is clear that we aren't deciding this distinction? 
```suggestion
- The color of the points indicates the quality that `SingleR` assigned to the annotation: 
```

Author: Thoughts on "labeled"?

Reviewer 2: That sounds good to me.

  - High-quality cell annotations are shown as closed points.
  - Low-quality cell annotations are shown as open points. 
  In other sections of this report, these cells are referred to as `Unknown cell types`.
  - For more information on how `SingleR` calculates annotation quality, please refer to [this `SingleR` documentation](https://rdrr.io/bioc/SingleR/man/pruneScores.html).

> - Red diamonds represent the median _delta median_ statistic among high-quality points for the given annotation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Red diamonds represent the median _delta median_ statistic among high-quality annotations for the given cell type label.
```

  # if pruned.labels are NA ==> low confidence
  # so, negate for this variable:
  confident = !is.na(metadata(processed_sce)$singler_result$pruned.labels)
) |>
  dplyr::mutate(confident = 

>     ifelse(confident, "Confident", "Not confident")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ifelse(confident, "High-confidence", "Low-confidence")
```
I think we want the naming to be the same between the text and the legends. We refer to these as "High" and "low" confidence in the text, so I think we should use that here.

Author: done but with high/low quality.

# add column with ordered levels with wrapped labels for visualization
delta_median_df$annotation_wrapped <- factor(
  delta_median_df$celltype,
  # rev() so large groups are at the TOP of the plot
  levels = rev(levels(delta_median_df$celltype)),
  labels = rev(stringr::str_wrap(levels(delta_median_df$celltype), 30))
)

# Subset the data to just confident points for median+/-IQR
delta_median_confident_df <- delta_median_df |>
  dplyr::filter(confident == "Confident")

# Plot delta_median across celltypes colored by pruning

> ggplot(delta_median_df) +

Reviewer: Can we make the points in the legend a bit bigger, they are really small.

  aes(
    x = delta_median,
    y = annotation_wrapped,
    shape = confident, 
    alpha = confident
  ) +
  ggforce::geom_sina(
    size = 0.75,
    alpha = 0.5,
    color = "black", # will get applied to all confident points and non-confident outline
    fill = "white", # will apply to non-confident fill only
    position = position_dodge(width = 0.05) # Keep both types of points mostly in line
  ) +
  # Handle points aesthetics: 
  #  confident are closed black with alpha = 0.5
  #  not confident are open black with alpha = 1
  scale_shape_manual(values = c(19, 21)) +
  scale_alpha_manual(values = c(0.5, 1)) +
  labs(

>     x = "Cell type annotation",
>     y = "Delta median statistic",

Reviewer 2: Just noticed this on first glance though. Though an alternative is to leave the x and y as they were and throw in `coord_flip()` to swap everything at once.
```suggestion
    x = "Delta median statistic",
    y = "Cell type annotation",
```

    shape = "Confidence in cell type assignment"
  ) +
  # add median diamond for confident points only
  stat_summary(
    data = delta_median_confident_df, 
    color = "red",
    geom = "point", 
    fun = "median", 
    shape = 18, 
    size = 2, 
    alpha = 0.9
  ) +
  # add median/IQR
  #geom_boxplot(
  #  data = delta_median_confident_df, # only use black points for median
  #  color = "red",
  #  width = 0.2,
  #  size = 0.3,
  #  alpha = 0,
  #  # remove whiskers, outliers
  #  outlier.shape = 0,
  #  coef = 0

>   #) +

Reviewer: Just a reminder to remove this.

# add column with ordered levels with wrapped labels for visualization
delta_median_df$annotation_wrapped <- factor(
  delta_median_df$celltype,
  # rev() so large groups are at the TOP of the plot
  levels = rev(levels(delta_median_df$celltype)),
  labels = rev(stringr::str_wrap(levels(delta_median_df$celltype), 30))
)

# Subset the data to just confident points for median+/-IQR
delta_median_confident_df <- delta_median_df |>

>   dplyr::filter(confident == "Confident")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dplyr::filter(confident == "High-confidence")
```

Author: done but with "high-quality"

# Determine height for plot area based on number of cells
plot_height <- length(unique(delta_median_df$celltype))/2.5
```

```{r, eval = has_singler, warning=FALSE, message=FALSE, fig.height = plot_height, fig.width = 6.5}
# Plot delta_median across celltypes colored by pruning
ggplot(delta_median_df) +
  aes(
    x = delta_median,
    y = annotation_wrapped,
    shape = confident, 
    alpha = confident
  ) +
  ggforce::geom_sina(
    size = 0.8,

>     alpha = 0.55,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think you can remove this if you are going to then set it later? I could be wrong though.
